Coder's Guide
=============
This guide provides information about the YaGs code and how it is organized. 
YaGs is written in C and is organized into sections, allowing for easy expansion
and modification. YaGs is designed to run on Linux, including Linux under Windows
Subsystem for Linux (WSL). It does not run as a native Windows application without
socket and other platform-specific changes.

YaGs supports the basic set of commands you'd expect to find in a mud.

1 Introduction

1.1 Code Structure

The YaGs codebase is wholly contained in a single file, `YaGs.c`, which is organized
into several sections. The code is structured to facilitate readability and maintainability.
Each section is responsible for a specific aspect of the game, such as the main 
game loop, event handling, and game state management. The code is written in C, 
following standard practices for clarity and efficiency.

1.2 Sections

YaGs is divided into sections, with each section responsible for a specific aspect
of the game. The sections, in the order they appear, are:

Includes
  Standard C and Linux header files; there are no external library headers
Macros
  Configuration constants and DEBUGIT
Globals
  Contains global variables used throughout the game
Player
  Player-related definitions
World
  Mobile, Object, Room, Shop, Social, and Spawn definitions
Functions
  Contains declarations for all functions used in the game
Commands
  Command-related definitions
Main
  Contains the main game loop including startup, event handling, and shutdown
All Do functions
  Every CommandTable command has a corresponding `Do` function that handles its logic
General player communication
  Functions for sending messages to players
Get player online
  Functions related to getting a player logged on and into the game
Log
  Functions for logging player actions and game events
Sockets
  Functions for handling network communication
Start up and shutdown
  Functions for initializing and cleaning up the game environment
Connection list
  Functions for managing player connections, including players currently online
Player file
  Functions for player records, inventory, equipment, experience, and recovery
Strings
  Functions for string manipulation and formatting
Miscellaneous
  Miscellaneous utility functions that do not fit into other categories
Mobiles
  Functions for loading and managing mobile definitions and instances
Objects
  Functions for loading and looking up object definitions
Rooms
  Functions for loading and managing rooms and objects on the ground
Shops
  Functions for loading and looking up shops and their objects
Socials
  Functions for loading and executing data-driven socials
Spawns
  Functions for loading spawn definitions and spawning mobiles

1.3 Functions and Variables

The code is organized into functions and variables that are grouped by functionality.
Each function is designed to perform a specific task, such as handling player input,
updating the game state, or rendering messages. Variables are used to store game
state information, such as player health, inventory items, and room descriptions.

2 Coding Standards

2.1 Naming Conventions

Functions and variables should be named using descriptive identifiers that clearly
indicate their purpose. Use CamelCase for function names and variables, do not 
separate words by underscores. For example instead of `game_start_msg` use 
`GameStartMsg`. 

Constants should be defined in all uppercase and separated by underscores (e.g. `YAGS_DIR`).

Enums should be named using Snake Case with the first letter of each word capitalized
(e.g. `Wait_Player_Name`).

2.2 Code Formatting

Code should be formatted consistently, with proper indentation and spacing. Use 2
spaces for indentation. Functions should be separated by a single blank line, and
blank lines are not used inside function bodies. Comments should be used to explain
complex logic or important sections of code.

2.3 Comments and Documentation

Comments should be used to explain the purpose of functions, variables, and complex
logic. Each function should have a brief description of its purpose.

3 Building and Compiling

3.1 Build System

YaGs does not require a Makefile. The repository includes a Visual Studio Linux
project configured for WSL. It may also be built from a Linux terminal with:
gcc YaGs.c -o YaGs.out -lm

3.2 Compiling the Code
	
To compile the code, ensure you have the necessary development tools installed,
such as a C compiler (e.g., GCC). Make is not required. The compilation process
will generate an executable file that can be run to start the game. If there are
any errors during compilation, they will be displayed in the terminal, and you
should address them before proceeding.

4 Debugging and Testing
  
4.1 Debugging Tools
	
YaGs supports debugging using tools like GDB (GNU Debugger). You can compile the 
code with debugging symbols by adding the `-g` flag to the compilation command.
This allows you to run the game in GDB and inspect variables, set breakpoints,
and step through the code to identify issues.

4.2 Testing Procedures

Testing is an essential part of the development process. YaGs currently relies
primarily on manual testing by playing the game and checking for bugs or
inconsistencies in gameplay.

5 Code Explanation

5.1 Overview

YaGs code is intended to be, for the most part, self-explanatory. There are of
course exceptions such that, when reading through the code, one might scratch
their head and wonder "what on earth is going on here?". Fortunately, we now
have ChatGPT that can help understand the code. But there are still cases
where the real meaning or intent of the code is still not clear. This section
tries to anticipate areas of the code that might need that extra explanation.

5.2 Macros

Most macros are simple x = y replacements, DEBUGIT(dl) is an exception. This
macro relies on the Log being `open`, so DO NOT add it to functions like
StartItUp() or any function that is executed before the log is available.

The value of YAGS_DIR might look strange to you. The `/mnt/c` part is specific
to using Windows and WSL. Change it when the YaGs folder is elsewhere. YAGS_DIR
must identify the folder containing the Library, Logs, and World folders.

5.3 Globals

Almost all variables are global variables and many functions take no parameters
and return void. Helper and lookup functions take parameters where needed, and
some return bool, int, long, size_t, or char pointers.

5.3.1 Strings

There are no strings in C, only arrays of characters with the last character
being a `\0`, known as a null-terminated string. YaGs deals with strings a lot,
so there are a number of techniques employed to make dealing with these strings
less painful. Global variable `TmpStr` is a case in point, defined once and used
throughout the code. The aTmpStr/TmpStr variables (and others like them) are
the chosen technique for YaGs. Variables like CmdParm1, CmdParm2, and CmdParm3
are intended to add clarity to the code. You also might find that all the
file name variables share aTmpStr. This is because no two of these are used at
the same time and during each use, the value is set and used. The code never
assumes anything about the contents of these variables.

5.4 Players

5.4.1 Player file

Persistent Player data is stored in Player.yags in the World folder. When a new
player connects to YaGs and completes the login steps, a player record is written
to Player.yags. The player record is represented by struct Player. If fields are
added to or removed from Player, Player.yags needs to be deleted and recreated
empty. The first player added to an empty Player.yags file has Admin set to `Y`.

Player fields that must persist immediately are written with PlayerWriteFile(). Room
movement marks the connection dirty and is saved by autosave or disconnect. Inventory
and equipment are stored separately in World/PlayerInv and World/PlayerEqu text files.

5.4.2 Connection list

As players connect and disconnect from the game, the ConnList is maintained and
reflects the real-time state of each connection. If the connection list is empty,
the game goes to sleep until a player tries to connect.

The connection list is the main driver for the whole game. For each player in the
connection list, check for input; if there is input, process the command (all input
from players ARE commands). See ProcessPlayerInput(). The processing of commands
results in some sort of output, so for each player in the connection list, send the
output to the player. See SocketSendPlayerOutput().

5.5 Commands

5.5.1 Adding a new command

Using a new command named example:
- Add the `void DoExample();` prototype in alphabetical order in the Functions section
- Add an eight-field `example` entry in alphabetical order in CommandTable
- Add `DoExample` in the corresponding position in DoCommand
- Add the `DoExample` implementation in the All Do functions section
- Add a Help:Example entry to Library/Help.txt and remove any Not Implemented Yet marker
- Add an entry to CommandAliasTable only if the command has an abbreviation

CommandTable and DoCommand must remain in exactly the same order. ValidateCommandTable()
checks that their entry counts match, but it cannot detect entries that are out of order.

For example;
void DoExample()
{
  DEBUGIT(1)
  strcat(pConn->Output, "The example command works.\r\n\r\n");
  Prompt(pConn);
}

Fire up the game and test your brand new command!

Data-driven socials do not use this process. Add those to Library/Social.txt.

5.5.2 Command table

The command table, `CommandTable`, defines each built-in command with a number of
attributes. These attributes are described by struct sCommands and allow MudCmdOk()
to perform common validation before the Do<command> function gets control. It checks:
- Admin access
- Minimum and maximum word counts
- Whether the command is allowed during combat
- The player's required position

MinWords and MaxWords include the command name itself. Message supplies the word-count
error; a value of None produces the generic error. Position values have these meanings:
- sleep allows the command in any position
- sit allows the command while sitting or standing
- stand allows the command only while standing

Validation specific to a command remains in its Do<command> function.

The columns are Name, Admin, Level, Position, Fight, MinWords, MaxWords, and Message.
CommandTable and DoCommand must remain in exactly the same order; ValidateCommandTable()
checks that they contain the same number of entries at startup. Abbreviations are
defined in CommandAliasTable. Data-driven socials are valid commands loaded from
Library/Social.txt and are handled separately from CommandTable. Level is stored in
the table but is not currently enforced.

5.6 Sockets

5.6.1 Berkeley sockets

YaGs uses Berkeley (BSD) sockets, with the network code grouped in the Sockets
section. The primary socket functions are: socket(), bind(), listen(), accept(),
select(), send(), recv(), and close(). There are a significant number of macros that
are defined in <arpa/inet.h> and <sys/socket.h> and are used as standard practice
when working with BSD sockets.

5.6.2 Listening

One of the first things a game server like YaGs must do is listen on a port.
SocketListen() binds PORT, currently 3737, to INADDR_ANY. This accepts connections
on any local network interface. Change the PORT macro when another port is needed,
and ensure the selected port is allowed through the applicable firewall. To restrict
development connections to the local computer, bind to 127.0.0.1 instead.

5.6.3 Non-Blocking

A very important part of using BSD sockets is to NOT block when getting input from
your players, and on the other hand, you need to know whether or not there is any
input from a player. The code satisfies both requirements via settings like
`fcntl(Listen, F_SETFL, FNDELAY);`
and checks like
`if (FD_ISSET(Socket, &InpSet))`.

5.7 Strings

5.7.1 Quality of life functions

In the Strings section of the code there are a number of functions that just make
dealing with C-Style strings a little easier. Each string function is very focused,
performing its mission as succinctly as possible. Many of the string functions modify
the actual string not a copy of the string. For example, Trim() takes a string but 
DOES NOT return a string, it modifies the string.

The Equal() function is an example of syntactic sugar which allows you
to write:
if (Equal(Commands.Admin, "Y"))
instead of
if (!strcmp(Commands.Admin, "Y"))